libraries.md, before:

# Libraries

## OPAM
* [Specifying solver preferences](https://opam.ocaml.org/doc/Specifying_Solver_Preferences.html) (helpful when dealing with core)
 * [Relevant Stack Overflow question](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/21594555/opam-upgrade-wants-to-downgrade-a-bunch-of-packages)

## Standard libraries
* [core](https://github.com/janestreet/core)
* [batteries](https://github.com/ocaml-batteries-team/batteries-included)
* [extlib](https://code.google.com/p/ocaml-extlib/)
* [containers](https://github.com/c-cube/ocaml-containers)
* [nonstd](https://bitbucket.org/smondet/nonstd)

## Command-line interfaces
* [Cmdliner](https://github.com/dbuenzli/cmdliner)

## Configuration
* [To.ml](https://github.com/mackwic/to.ml)

## Logging
* [dolog](https://github.com/UnixJunkie/dolog)
* [bolt](http://bolt.x9c.fr)
* [volt](https://github.com/codinuum/volt)

## Serialization
* [Marshal](http://caml.inria.fr/pub/docs/manual-ocaml/libref/Marshal.html)
* [yojson](https://github.com/mjambon/yojson)
* [biniou](https://github.com/mjambon/biniou)
* [atd](https://github.com/mjambon/atd)
* [atdgen](https://github.com/mjambon/atdgen)
* [atd2cconv](https://github.com/smondet/atd2cconv)
* [thrift](https://github.com/apache/thrift/tree/master/lib/ocaml)
* [piqi](https://github.com/alavrik/piqi-ocaml)

## Web
* [Cohttp](https://github.com/mirage/ocaml-cohttp)
* [Simple client](http://stackoverflow.com/a/27648756/171965)
 
## Math


- Lower-level implementations & bindings:
    - [MMottl's GSL](http://opam.ocaml.org/packages/gsl/gsl.1.11.0/)
        - Well documented, but one needs the original
          [doc](http://www.gnu.org/software/gsl/manual/html_node/).
        - GSL itself not that used.
        - Uses BLAS (but not the ocaml binding).
        - `BuildDepends: bigarray, camlp4`.
    - [`mmottl/lacaml`](https://github.com/mmottl/lacaml)
        - BLAS + LAPACK bindings.
        - With `bigarray`.
        - “linear equations, least squares problems, eigenvalue problems, singular
          value decomposition (SVD), Cholesky and QR-factorization, etc.”
        - + pretty-printing: `Lacaml.Io.pp_lfmat`.
    - “[L-BFGS](https://forge.ocamlcore.org/projects/lbfgs/) is a limited-memory
      quasi-Newton code for bound-constrained optimization. It is a binding to
      [lbfgsb](http://users.eecs.northwestern.edu/~nocedal/lbfgsb.html)”
        - See function [`min`](http://lbfgs.forge.ocamlcore.org/API.docdir/Lbfgs.F.html).
    - [`inria-parkas/sundialsml`](https://github.com/inria-parkas/sundialsml)
        - “Sundials/ML is an interface to the Sundials suite: CVODE, CVODES, IDA,
          IDAS, and KINSOL.”
        - Uses `bigarray` and optionally `mpi`
          (cf. [META.in](https://github.com/inria-parkas/sundialsml/blob/master/META.in)).
        - Seems very solid.
    - [`Chris00/fftw-ocaml`](https://github.com/Chris00/fftw-ocaml)
        - OCaml bindings to the C that was generated by OCaml code.
    - [`amnh/ocamion`](https://github.com/amnh/ocamion)
        - Used to be part of [`amnh/POY`](https://github.com/amnh/POY) .
        - “A library of numerical and combinatorial optimization procedures written
          in OCaml, with additional bindings for external optimization routines.”
- Special Types/Data-structures:
    - [`def-lkb/doubledouble`](https://github.com/def-lkb/doubledouble)
        - `type t = {hi: float; lo: float}`
        (code “translated” from
        [`DoubleDouble.java`](http://tsusiatsoftware.net/dd/main.html)).
    - [ZArith](https://forge.ocamlcore.org/projects/zarith/)
        - Arithmetic with OCaml `int`s that *switch* to
 [GMP](https://gmplib.org/) big-ints instead of overflowing.
- Statistics:
    - [`superbobry/pareto`](https://github.com/superbobry/pareto)
        - Uses `gsl`.
        - Cool use of the module system to constraint properties of
          distributions.
    - [`mmottl/gpr`](https://github.com/mmottl/gpr)
        - Advanced on the math side,
          cf. [Gaussian process](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gaussian_process)
        - `BuildDepends: threads, core, lacaml, gsl`
    - [HANSEI](http://okmij.org/ftp/kakuritu/)
        - Oleg's statistical programming EDSL.
        - See [examples](http://okmij.org/ftp/kakuritu/paper_examples.ml)
    - [`mmottl/aifad`](https://github.com/mmottl/aifad)
        - Cool but need to find something useful to
          [do](https://github.com/mmottl/aifad#contact-information-and-contributing).
- Cryptography:
    - [cryptokit](https://forge.ocamlcore.org/projects/cryptokit/)
        - Easy to use / lego-brick-like composition of transformations.
    - [`mirleft/ocaml-nocrypto`](https://github.com/mirleft/ocaml-nocrypto)
        - Made for [`mirleft/ocaml-tls`](https://github.com/mirleft/ocaml-tls).
        - `BuildDepends: cstruct, zarith, ctypes, ctypes.stubs, sexplib.syntax, type_conv`.
        - Most functions deal with `Cstruct.t` instead of `bigarray`.
- Geometry:
    - [`dbuenzli/gg/`](https://github.com/dbuenzli/gg/)
        - Awesome documentation, cf. [`gg.mli`](https://github.com/dbuenzli/gg/blob/master/src/gg.mli).
        - Maybe everything you may need for 2/3/4D geometry/graphics.
- Linear Algebra:
    - [`cheshire/onumerical`](https://github.com/cheshire/onumerical)
        - High-level, pure OCaml implementations.
        - `requires = "core dolog zarith oUnit"`
    - [`akabe/sgpr`](https://github.com/akabe/sgpr) & [`akabe/slap`](https://github.com/akabe/slap)
        - Wrappers of respectively GPR and Lacaml with cool type-based static
          size checking (and higher-level API).
- Obsolete and/or too young projects:
    - [`samoht/ocamlmath`](https://github.com/samoht/ocamlmath)
        - Mirror of <https://forge.ocamlcore.org/projects/mathocaml>
        - `BuildDepends: num, str`
        - “Opam package is under construction”
        - Old code with French comments.
    - [`pgnewell/Optimize`](https://github.com/pgnewell/Optimize)
        - Not in opam; *homework assignment*.
    - [`youjinbou/gmaths`](https://github.com/youjinbou/gmaths)
        - Dead-ish project which now recommends
          [`dbuenzli/gg/`](https://github.com/dbuenzli/gg/).
    - [`tautologico/ocaml-distrib`](https://github.com/tautologico/ocaml-distrib)
        - No `.mli`, no build system …
    - [`zaxtax/ocaml-clustering`](https://github.com/zaxtax/ocaml-clustering)
        - Maybe *copy-pastable* implementations of clustering algorithms? but
          there is no license.
    - [`hammer/olearn`](https://github.com/hammer/olearn)
        - In-progress machine-learning library.

Commit message:

Update libraries.md - add ocaml-prob-cache

libraries.md, after:

# Libraries

## OPAM
* [Specifying solver preferences](https://opam.ocaml.org/doc/Specifying_Solver_Preferences.html) (helpful when dealing with core)
 * [Relevant Stack Overflow question](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/21594555/opam-upgrade-wants-to-downgrade-a-bunch-of-packages)

## Standard libraries
* [core](https://github.com/janestreet/core)
* [batteries](https://github.com/ocaml-batteries-team/batteries-included)
* [extlib](https://code.google.com/p/ocaml-extlib/)
* [containers](https://github.com/c-cube/ocaml-containers)
* [nonstd](https://bitbucket.org/smondet/nonstd)

## Command-line interfaces
* [Cmdliner](https://github.com/dbuenzli/cmdliner)

## Configuration
* [To.ml](https://github.com/mackwic/to.ml)

## Logging
* [dolog](https://github.com/UnixJunkie/dolog)
* [bolt](http://bolt.x9c.fr)
* [volt](https://github.com/codinuum/volt)

## Serialization
* [Marshal](http://caml.inria.fr/pub/docs/manual-ocaml/libref/Marshal.html)
* [yojson](https://github.com/mjambon/yojson)
* [biniou](https://github.com/mjambon/biniou)
* [atd](https://github.com/mjambon/atd)
* [atdgen](https://github.com/mjambon/atdgen)
* [atd2cconv](https://github.com/smondet/atd2cconv)
* [thrift](https://github.com/apache/thrift/tree/master/lib/ocaml)
* [piqi](https://github.com/alavrik/piqi-ocaml)

## Web
* [Cohttp](https://github.com/mirage/ocaml-cohttp)
* [Simple client](http://stackoverflow.com/a/27648756/171965)
 
## Math


- Lower-level implementations & bindings:
    - [MMottl's GSL](http://opam.ocaml.org/packages/gsl/gsl.1.11.0/)
        - Well documented, but one needs the original
          [doc](http://www.gnu.org/software/gsl/manual/html_node/).
        - GSL itself not that used.
        - Uses BLAS (but not the ocaml binding).
        - `BuildDepends: bigarray, camlp4`.
    - [`mmottl/lacaml`](https://github.com/mmottl/lacaml)
        - BLAS + LAPACK bindings.
        - With `bigarray`.
        - “linear equations, least squares problems, eigenvalue problems, singular
          value decomposition (SVD), Cholesky and QR-factorization, etc.”
        - + pretty-printing: `Lacaml.Io.pp_lfmat`.
    - “[L-BFGS](https://forge.ocamlcore.org/projects/lbfgs/) is a limited-memory
      quasi-Newton code for bound-constrained optimization. It is a binding to
      [lbfgsb](http://users.eecs.northwestern.edu/~nocedal/lbfgsb.html)”
        - See function [`min`](http://lbfgs.forge.ocamlcore.org/API.docdir/Lbfgs.F.html).
    - [`inria-parkas/sundialsml`](https://github.com/inria-parkas/sundialsml)
        - “Sundials/ML is an interface to the Sundials suite: CVODE, CVODES, IDA,
          IDAS, and KINSOL.”
        - Uses `bigarray` and optionally `mpi`
          (cf. [META.in](https://github.com/inria-parkas/sundialsml/blob/master/META.in)).
        - Seems very solid.
    - [`Chris00/fftw-ocaml`](https://github.com/Chris00/fftw-ocaml)
        - OCaml bindings to the C that was generated by OCaml code.
    - [`amnh/ocamion`](https://github.com/amnh/ocamion)
        - Used to be part of [`amnh/POY`](https://github.com/amnh/POY) .
        - “A library of numerical and combinatorial optimization procedures written
          in OCaml, with additional bindings for external optimization routines.”
- Special Types/Data-structures:
    - [`def-lkb/doubledouble`](https://github.com/def-lkb/doubledouble)
        - `type t = {hi: float; lo: float}`
        (code “translated” from
        [`DoubleDouble.java`](http://tsusiatsoftware.net/dd/main.html)).
    - [ZArith](https://forge.ocamlcore.org/projects/zarith/)
        - Arithmetic with OCaml `int`s that *switch* to
 [GMP](https://gmplib.org/) big-ints instead of overflowing.
- Statistics:
    - [`superbobry/pareto`](https://github.com/superbobry/pareto)
        - Uses `gsl`.
        - Cool use of the module system to constraint properties of
          distributions.
    - [`mmottl/gpr`](https://github.com/mmottl/gpr)
        - Advanced on the math side,
          cf. [Gaussian process](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gaussian_process)
        - `BuildDepends: threads, core, lacaml, gsl`
    - [HANSEI](http://okmij.org/ftp/kakuritu/)
        - Oleg's statistical programming EDSL.
        - See [examples](http://okmij.org/ftp/kakuritu/paper_examples.ml)
    - [`mmottl/aifad`](https://github.com/mmottl/aifad)
        - Cool but need to find something useful to
          [do](https://github.com/mmottl/aifad#contact-information-and-contributing).
    - [`struktured/ocaml-prob-cache`](https://github.com/struktured/ocaml-prob-cache)
        - Polymorphic distributed caching of multinomial distributions backed by riak
- Cryptography:
    - [cryptokit](https://forge.ocamlcore.org/projects/cryptokit/)
        - Easy to use / lego-brick-like composition of transformations.
    - [`mirleft/ocaml-nocrypto`](https://github.com/mirleft/ocaml-nocrypto)
        - Made for [`mirleft/ocaml-tls`](https://github.com/mirleft/ocaml-tls).
        - `BuildDepends: cstruct, zarith, ctypes, ctypes.stubs, sexplib.syntax, type_conv`.
        - Most functions deal with `Cstruct.t` instead of `bigarray`.
- Geometry:
    - [`dbuenzli/gg/`](https://github.com/dbuenzli/gg/)
        - Awesome documentation, cf. [`gg.mli`](https://github.com/dbuenzli/gg/blob/master/src/gg.mli).
        - Maybe everything you may need for 2/3/4D geometry/graphics.
- Linear Algebra:
    - [`cheshire/onumerical`](https://github.com/cheshire/onumerical)
        - High-level, pure OCaml implementations.
        - `requires = "core dolog zarith oUnit"`
    - [`akabe/sgpr`](https://github.com/akabe/sgpr) & [`akabe/slap`](https://github.com/akabe/slap)
        - Wrappers of respectively GPR and Lacaml with cool type-based static
          size checking (and higher-level API).
- Obsolete and/or too young projects:
    - [`samoht/ocamlmath`](https://github.com/samoht/ocamlmath)
        - Mirror of <https://forge.ocamlcore.org/projects/mathocaml>
        - `BuildDepends: num, str`
        - “Opam package is under construction”
        - Old code with French comments.
    - [`pgnewell/Optimize`](https://github.com/pgnewell/Optimize)
        - Not in opam; *homework assignment*.
    - [`youjinbou/gmaths`](https://github.com/youjinbou/gmaths)
        - Dead-ish project which now recommends
          [`dbuenzli/gg/`](https://github.com/dbuenzli/gg/).
    - [`tautologico/ocaml-distrib`](https://github.com/tautologico/ocaml-distrib)
        - No `.mli`, no build system …
    - [`zaxtax/ocaml-clustering`](https://github.com/zaxtax/ocaml-clustering)
        - Maybe *copy-pastable* implementations of clustering algorithms? but
          there is no license.
    - [`hammer/olearn`](https://github.com/hammer/olearn)
        - In-progress machine-learning library.
